Custom listen ports document (#3715)
nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress: docs/content/tutorials/custom-listen-ports.md

## Customizing the `listen` line in NGINX Ingress Controller.

This document will explain how to change the default ports that NGINX Ingress Controller is configured for, as well as add additional `listen` settings. For more information, please read the [NGINX Listen documentation](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html#listen).

## Changing Default Ports

By default, NGINX Ingress Controller listens on ports 80 and 443. These ports can be changed easily, but modifying the `listen` ports for your NGINX Ingress resources will require the editing of .tmpl files.

If you are using `ingress` resource you will need to modify:
- `nginx-plus-ingress.tmpl` if using NGINX Plus
- `nginx-ingress.tmpl` if using NGINX OSS

If you are using NGINX Ingress Controller CRDs (virtualServer):
- `nginx-plus-virtualserver.tmpl` for NGINX Plus
- `nginx-virtualserver.tmpl` if using NGINX OSS

For this example, we are going to use the `nginx-virtualserver.tmpl` to change the port from 80 to 85.

> Here we modify `nginx-virtualserver.tmpl` to change the port setting:

Reviewer: we can probably add a github link to tmpl files here.

```
server {
    listen 80{{ if $s.ProxyProtocol }} proxy_protocol{{ end }};

    server_name {{ $s.ServerName }};

    set $resource_type "virtualserver";
    set $resource_name "{{$s.VSName}}";
    set $resource_namespace "{{$s.VSNamespace}}";
```
To change the listen port from `80` to `85`, we modify the `listen` line at the start of the server configuration block.

It would then look like this:
```
server {
    listen 85{{ if $s.ProxyProtocol }} proxy_protocol{{ end }};

    server_name {{ $s.ServerName }};

    set $resource_type "virtualserver";
    set $resource_name "{{$s.VSName}}";
    set $resource_namespace "{{$s.VSNamespace}}";
```

> Edit the file you need (per the example above). In my case, I edited, `nginx-plus-virtualserver.tmpls`:

Reviewer: same, link to file in repo

## Rebuild your NGINX Ingress controller image

You will need to build your new NGINX Ingress controller image for the new port settings to take affect.
Once the image is built and pushed, make sure you update your deployment to point to the new image and deploy.

> Once deployed, create a new `virtualServer` resource and then run `nginx -T` to see if the port takes affect.

Reviewer: maybe add full command:
`kubectl exec -it -n nginx-ingress <pod_name> -- nginx -T`

---
title: Customizing NGINX Ingress Controller Ports
description: |
  How to customize F5 NGINX Ingress Controller ports.
weight: 1800
doctypes: ["concept"]
toc: true
---
## Customizing NGINX Ingress Controller Ports

This document explains how to change the default ports that NGINX Ingress Controller is configured to use, as well as how to add additional `listen` settings. For more information, please read the [NGINX Listen documentation](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html#listen).

## Changing Default Ports

> By default, NGINX Ingress Controller listens on ports 80 and 443. These ports can be changed easily, but modifying the `listen` ports for your NGINX Ingress resources will require the editing of .tmpl files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, NGINX Ingress Controller listens on ports 80 and 443. These ports can be changed easily, but modifying the `listen` ports for your NGINX Ingress resources will require the editing of `.tmpl` files.
```

> If you are using NGINX Ingress Controller CRDs (virtualServer):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are using NGINX Ingress Controller CRDs (VirtualServer):
```

- `nginx-plus-virtualserver.tmpl` for NGINX Plus
- `nginx-virtualserver.tmpl` if using NGINX OSS

> If you are using `ingress` resource you will need to modify:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are using `Ingress` resource you will need to modify:
```

We start by modifying `nginx-virtualserver.tmpl` to change the port setting:

```nginx
server {
    listen 80{{ if $s.ProxyProtocol }} proxy_protocol{{ end }};

    server_name {{ $s.ServerName }};

    set $resource_type "virtualserver";
    set $resource_name "{{$s.VSName}}";
    set $resource_namespace "{{$s.VSNamespace}}";
```
To change the listen port from `80` to `85`, edit the `listen` line at the start of the server configuration block.

After changing the number, the file looks like this:

```nginx
server {
    listen 85{{ if $s.ProxyProtocol }} proxy_protocol{{ end }};

    server_name {{ $s.ServerName }};

    set $resource_type "virtualserver";
    set $resource_name "{{$s.VSName}}";
    set $resource_namespace "{{$s.VSNamespace}}";
```

Modify the file you need (per the example above). In the example, we modified `nginx-plus-virtualserver.tmpl`:

## Rebuild the NGINX Ingress Controller image

You must rebuild the NGINX Ingress Controller image for the new port settings to take effect.
Once the image is built and pushed, make sure you update your deployment to point to the new image and deploy.

> Once deployed, create a new `virtualServer` resource and run `nginx -T` to confirm if the port change has taken effect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once deployed, create a new `VirtualServer` resource and run `nginx -T` to confirm if the port change has taken effect.
```

> Ensure that your `deployment` and your `service` match up to the new port you configured in the templates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ensure that your `Deployment` and your `Service` match up to the new port you configured in the templates.
```

> Below is an example of  `deployment` and `service` matching to the new port that NGINX Ingress Controller now listens on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below is an example of  `Deployment` and `Service` matching to the new port that NGINX Ingress Controller now listens on.
```

> ```nginx

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: nginx-ingress
  namespace: nginx-ingress
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: nginx-ingress
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: nginx-ingress
      annotations:
       prometheus.io/scrape: "true"
       prometheus.io/port: "9113"
       prometheus.io/scheme: http
    spec:
      serviceAccountName: nginx-ingress
      containers:
      - image: nginx/nginx-ingress:3.0.2
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        name: nginx-ingress
        ports:
        - name: http
          containerPort: 85
        - name: https
          containerPort: 443
        - name: readiness-port
          containerPort: 8081
        - name: prometheus
          containerPort: 9113
        readinessProbe:
          httpGet:
            path: /nginx-ready
            port: readiness-port
          periodSeconds: 1
        securityContext:
```

Notice that now, the `http` port is set to `85`, which reflects the change we made in the template file.

Here is the `service` file:

> ```nginx

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: nginx-ingress
  namespace: nginx-ingress
spec:
  externalTrafficPolicy: Local
  type: LoadBalancer
  ports:
  - port: 80
    targetPort: 85
    protocol: TCP
    name: http
  - port: 8443
    targetPort: 8443
    protocol: TCP
    name: https
  selector:
    app: nginx-ingress
```

Since NGINX Ingress Controller is now listening on ports 85 and 8443, you must modify the `targetPort` in the NGINX Ingress Controller service to match the change in the deployment to ensure traffic will be sent to the proper port.

> The parameter to change above is `targetPort`. Since we have changed NGINX Ingress to listen on port 85, we need to match that in the service: requests will be sent to NGINX Ingress Controller on port 85 instead of the default value, port 80.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The parameter to change above is `targetPort`. Since we have changed NGINX Ingress Controller to listen on port 85, we need to match that in the service: requests will be sent to NGINX Ingress Controller on port 85 instead of the default value, port 80.
```

If you view the `NGINX` configuration .conf file using `nginx -T`, you should see the port you defined in the .template file is now set on the `listen` line.

Here is an example output of the `NGINX` configuration that has been generated:

> ```bash
> k exec -it -n nginx-ingress nginx-ingress-54bffd78d9-v7bns -- nginx -T

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```console
kubectl exec -it -n nginx-ingress nginx-ingress-54bffd78d9-v7bns -- nginx -T
```

---
title: Customze ports for NGINX Ingress Controller
description: |
  Customze ports for NGINX Ingress Controller
weight: 1800
doctypes: ["concept"]
toc: true
docs: "DOCS-1191"
---

> ## Customizing the `listen` line in NGINX Ingress Controller.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```
This feels redundant after the title and description

> This document will explain how to change the default ports that NGINX Ingress Controller is configured for, as well as add additional `listen` settings. For more information, please read the [NGINX Listen documentation](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html#listen).

Reviewer 4: the default ports of 80 and 443 that NGINX Ingress Controller is configured to listen on.  It also starts you on the path of custom listener settings not handled through configuration.

## Changing Default Ports

By default, NGINX Ingress Controller listens on ports 80 and 443. These ports can be changed easily, but modifying the `listen` ports for your NGINX Ingress resources will require the editing of .tmpl files.

If you are using `ingress` resource you will need to modify:
- `nginx-plus-ingress.tmpl` if using NGINX Plus
- `nginx-ingress.tmpl` if using NGINX OSS

If you are using NGINX Ingress Controller CRDs (virtualServer):
- `nginx-plus-virtualserver.tmpl` for NGINX Plus
- `nginx-virtualserver.tmpl` if using NGINX OSS

For this example, we are going to use the `nginx-virtualserver.tmpl` to change the port from 80 to 85.
Here is a link to the directory for the `.tmpl` files:

> [nginx-virtualserver template files](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/main/internal/configs/version2)

Reviewer 4: The path should also be shown so the reader does not need to click or hover to read the path.

> For this example, we are going to use the `nginx-virtualserver.tmpl` to change the port from 80 to 85.
> Here is a link to the directory for the `.tmpl` files:
> 
> [nginx-virtualserver template files](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/main/internal/configs/version2)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For this example, we will use the `nginx-virtualserver.tmpl` template to change the port from 80 to 85.
You can find the [nginx-virtualserver template files in our repository](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/main/internal/configs/version2).
```

Here we modify `nginx-virtualserver.tmpl` to change the port setting:

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```nginx
```

server {
    listen 80{{ if $s.ProxyProtocol }} proxy_protocol{{ end }};

    server_name {{ $s.ServerName }};

    set $resource_type "virtualserver";
    set $resource_name "{{$s.VSName}}";
    set $resource_namespace "{{$s.VSNamespace}}";
```
To change the listen port from `80` to `85`, we modify the `listen` line at the start of the server configuration block.

> It would then look like this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After modifying the line, the file looks like this:
```

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```nginx
```

server {
    listen 85{{ if $s.ProxyProtocol }} proxy_protocol{{ end }};

    server_name {{ $s.ServerName }};

    set $resource_type "virtualserver";
    set $resource_name "{{$s.VSName}}";
    set $resource_namespace "{{$s.VSNamespace}}";
```

> Edit the file you need (per the example above). In my case, I edited, `nginx-plus-virtualserver.tmpl`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Modify the file you need (per the example above). In the example, we modified `nginx-plus-virtualserver.tmpl`:
```

## Rebuild your NGINX Ingress controller image

> You will need to build your new NGINX Ingress controller image for the new port settings to take affect.
> Once the image is built and pushed, make sure you update your deployment to point to the new image and deploy.
> Once deployed, create a new `virtualServer` resource and then run `nginx -T` to see if the port takes affect.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You must build your new NGINX Ingress controller image for the new port settings to take effect.
Once the image is built and pushed, make sure you update your deployment to point to the new image and deploy.
Once deployed, create a new `virtualServer` resource and run `nginx -T` to confirm if the port change has taken effect.
```

Ensure that your `deployment` and your `service` match up to the new port you configured in the templates.
Here is simple example of my `deployment` and my `service` matching to the new port that NGINX Ingress controller now listens on.

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```nginx
```

apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: nginx-ingress
  namespace: nginx-ingress
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: nginx-ingress
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: nginx-ingress
      annotations:
       prometheus.io/scrape: "true"
       prometheus.io/port: "9113"
       prometheus.io/scheme: http
    spec:
      serviceAccountName: nginx-ingress
      containers:
      - image: nginx/nginx-ingress:3.0.2
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        name: nginx-ingress
        ports:
        - name: http
          containerPort: 85
        - name: https
          containerPort: 443
        - name: readiness-port
          containerPort: 8081
        - name: prometheus
          containerPort: 9113
        readinessProbe:
          httpGet:
            path: /nginx-ready
            port: readiness-port
          periodSeconds: 1
        securityContext:
```

> Notice that now, my `http` port is set to `85`, which reflects the change I made in the template file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Notice that now, the `http` port is set to `85`, which reflects the change we made in the template file.
```

> Here is my `service` file:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here is the `service` file:
```

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```nginx
```

apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: nginx-ingress
  namespace: nginx-ingress
spec:
  externalTrafficPolicy: Local
  type: LoadBalancer
  ports:
  - port: 80
    targetPort: 85
    protocol: TCP
    name: http
  - port: 8443
    targetPort: 8443
    protocol: TCP
    name: https
  selector:
    app: nginx-ingress
```

> Since NGINX Ingress controller is now listening on ports 85 and 8443, we modify the `targetPort` in the NGINX Ingress controller service, to match what we have changed in our deployment, to ensure traffic will be sent to the proper port.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since NGINX Ingress controller is now listening on ports 85 and 8443, we modify the `targetPort` in the NGINX Ingress controller service to match what we have changed in our deployment and ensure traffic will be sent to the proper port.
```

> The key part above is the `targetPort` section. Since I change NGINX Ingress to listen on port 85, I need to match that in the service. That way, requests will be sent to NGINX Ingress controller on port 85 instead of the default value which is port 80.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The key part above is the `targetPort` section. Since we have changed NGINX Ingress to listen on port 85, we need to match that in the service: Requests will be sent to NGINX Ingress controller on port 85 instead of the default value, port 80.
```

> If you view the `NGINX` configuration .conf file using `nginx -T`, you should see the port you defined in the .template file, now is set on the `listen` line.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you view the `NGINX` configuration .conf file using `nginx -T`, you should see the port you defined in the .template file is now set on the `listen` line.
```

Reviewer 3: In addition to the suggestion above, shouldn't this be `in the ,tmpl file`  or  `in the template file` without a period?

> Here is an example output of the `NGINX` configuration that is now generated:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here is an example output of the `NGINX` configuration that has been generated:
```

```bash
k exec -it -n nginx-ingress nginx-ingress-54bffd78d9-v7bns -- nginx -T
```

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```nginx
```
